# Irrigation-System-Monitoring
This project  is  based on my course Microprocessor and Embedded system. 

Nowadays, Science and Innovation make our life faster and easier. Bangladesh is an agricultural Country but from the very beginning our farmers are using the traditional method in their farming. But it’s high time to introduce technology in this sector. From this point of view we are going to provide a smart solution. The goal of the project is to design an automatic irrigation system monitoring for the farmers. In This Plant Watering System, Soil Moisture Sensor checks the moisture level in the soil and if moisture level is low then Arduino switches on a water pump to provide water to the plant. Water pump gets automatically off when system finds enough moisture in the soil. This system will be very sustainable and useful in Farms, gardens, home etc. This system will be completely automated and there is no need for any human intervention. After investigate we found that actually farmers are facing problem to keep the moisture level of the soil good for a long time, how and when the water is need for their crops they don’t know this things well. This system will be the Proper solution of their problem. The system will fully automated, cost friendly and easy to use. The system will going to help farmers to produce more crops, reduce their hamper and above all they can take the necessary steps by getting message alert. The overall system will going to simulated by using proteus 8 professional simulation software
